.nr PO 1i
.nr LL 6.5i
.nr PS 11000
.nr FL \n[LL]*9/10
.nr FF 0
.ds CH
.ds CF -%-

.TL
Advisory Board Meeting
.AU
May 11, 2020 - May 12, 2020
.NH
May 11, 2020 notes
.LP
.B "Abdallah Daar:"
Ethics considerations important;
African participation important.
He recommended an African institution to engage (I didn't catch the name of the organization).
.LP
.B "Nick Oguje:"
Why disproportionate burden in Africa?
If GM population released,
what will be the ability to spread in the environment?
What will be the quantity of release in a location?
What will be the strategy of release?
Do we know if the GM mosquitoes will live longer?
.LP
.B "Elias Zerhouni:"
Need to compile an FAQ based on questions that the board might have.
.LP
.B "Bernard Nahlen:"
Fitness issue--could some of the early released be such that the population dies off?
.LP
.B "Christian Borgmeister:"
Communication will also be important.
Has the failed communication strategy of plant GMOs been studied with respect to lessons learned?
What is the relationship between GeneConvene and other (didn't catch it) organizations?
Wants to know more about Virtual Institute
.LP
.B "Yacine Djibo:"
Need to engage not only academic institutions,
but also ministries of health.
WHO should also be engaged.
Build capacity of developers to communicate about gene drive.
What influencers should we bring in so we can point inquiries to them?
.LP
.B "General Discussion:"
Do not pit different technologies against each other.
.LP
.B "Elias Zerhouni:"
General distrust of science.
This requires us to understand this better.
We need to bring in expertise.
He was very strong in his recommendation about this.
.LP
.B "Abdallah Daar:"
Need to engage legislators.
.LP
.B "Nick Oguje:"
Need to engage regional organizations
.NH
May 12, 2020 notes
.LP
.B "Ann Kingiri:"
Discussion of questions she sent via email yesterday.
First question: AU and stakeholders engagement.
How will AU participate in community engagement?
.LP
.B "Willy Tonui:"
NEPAD has held problem formulation workshops;
publication with ILSI.
High level panel--Abdallah can answer.
.LP
.B "Abdallah Daar:"
Described the AU High Level Panel report.
He is not sure about how the report has been disseminated.
NEPAD has been doing a good job disseminating information about it.
It is readily available on Google.
.LP
.B "Christian Borgmeister:"
Agreed with Ann's comment about engaging with regional organizations.
These organization, e.g. ECOWAS can engage on the ground.
African Academy of Sciences, on the other hand, has become a strong scientific influencer.
He recommends engaging with them.
.LP
.B "Stephanie:"
Explained AUDA/NEPAD's role and our relationship with them.
Also described their activities re: WAIVM.
.LP
.B "Bernard Nahlen:"
Recommended engaging ____ (Malaria ministers' organization in Africa)
.LP
.B "Ann Kingiri:"
Mentioned a report (I didn't catch which one).
Asked about whether we have engaged PAMCA.
.LP
.B "Stephanie:"
Yes we have engaged them.
Dave has attended their meetings.
.LP
.B "General Discussion re PAMCA"
Described our interactions with PAMCA and their work.
.LP
.B "General Discussion re West Africa:"
Burkina and Mali have become unstable.
.LP
.B "Interrupted notes--technical problems."
.LP
.B "General Discussion"
.br
Capacity of researchers in Africa:
Level of understanding not strong.
We focused on regulators and researchers.
Knowledge building and risk assessment aspects.
ICIPE as a center for independent risk assessment?
Ifakara and University of Bamako were also mentioned.
South Africa groups were mentioned as a possibility,
reach out to M. Coetzee to ask her as a resource to identify insitutions.
South Africa is also strong in biocontrol that could be leveraged to gene drive.
.LP
.B "Bernard Nahlen:"
Is there a paper that can serve as a background document?
Dave will look for a review for the board to read.
.NH 2
Questions for board
.LP
.IP \[bu] 2
Stephanie reviewed questions and what has been already covered by our discussion over the past two days.
.IP \[bu] 2
What's the best way to get information the board?
.RS
.IP
Website needed:
we will be getting it on line soon.
.IP
Fortnightly newsletter could be sent to the board via email.
.RE
.LP
.B "General Discussion"
.IP \[bu] 2
Write a charter for the board.
.IP \[bu] 2
Stephanie will circulate the stakeholder mapping that has been done by FNIH.
.IP \[bu] 2
Circulate a review of status of research.
.IP \[bu] 2
Create a chat room for the board.
.IP \[bu] 2
Need communication materials for the board to use.
.NH 2
Dave: Virtual Institute walkthrough.